---
title: Contextualizing Indigenous Research
layout: about
permalink: /indig-research.html
---
For the purposes of this collection, Indigenous Studies research -- what is also referred to as Native American, American Indian, Native, or First Nations research -- is defined as work that centers Western Hemisphere Indigenous peoples, topics, issues, and events. This includes peoples indigenous to the modern-day countries of North and South America, who have called these lands home long before European settler-colonization. Given the scope of this collection, works that specificly focus on Indigenous peoples from Australia, New Zealand, Polynesia, Africa, Asia, etc are not included, although many works featured here are concerned with broad issues that affect all Indigenous peoples.

Find out whose land you live on at [native-land.ca](https://native-land.ca/).

Indigenous knowledge, wisdom, and culture deserve to be valued and shared. Indigenous communities across the world have experienced centuries of violence and oppression at the hands of colonizers. They have often been taken advantage of by non-Indigenous (mainly white) researchers who see them as ignorant objects of study rather than active co-creators of knowledge. By removing paywalls and institutional barriers, Open Access Indigenous research can begin to connect the benefits of research to the people themselves and contribute to cultural revitalization. Increasing access to this work can encourage and facilitate research for Indigenous researchers. For non-Indigenous researchers, appreciating Indigenous ways of knowing helps us to expand and critique our worldview to create deeper and more respectful understanding of culture, heritage, history, and religion.

While Indigneous authorship was not a collection requirement, many of these works are written by Indigenous people and/or in connection with Indigneous tribes and communities. My hope is that this collection uplifts and centers Indigenous voices.

For a list of Indigenous Studies / Native American Studies programs in the United States, visit the [Association on American Indian Affairs.](https://www.indian-affairs.org/nativestudies.html)

I am deeply grateful to Dr. Sandy Littletree, a Díne/Eastern Shoshone professor at the University of Washington, for her teachings on  Indigenous Ways of Knowing. You can read her dissertation in this collection!
